README.md, before:

# LoistoTxt
Song lyrics and lower 3rd titles displayer to obs, vmix or any casting software that supports browser source. Additionally you can remote control whitelisted scenes at OBS (additional plugin required for this).
Optionally you can control lights on [QLC+ lightdesk app](https://www.qlcplus.org/).

## Install
    
1. Install `nodejs` and `npm` to your platform (win/linux/mac)
2. optionally Install [obs-websocket](https://github.com/Palakis/obs-websocket/releases) plugin to your obs and set it up.
3. Get this repo to some folder at your computer

### Windows

1. double click `install_deps.bat`
2. double click `run.bat` and follow instructions
3. copy `config-default.json` to `config.json`
4. edit config.json to match your settings

### Linux (& Mac)

1. run `npm install` at the folder
2. start by writing `npm start` at console and follow instructions
3. copy `config-default.json` to `config.json`
4. edit config.json to match your settings

### config.json

structure of the file is quite obvious:

    {
        "obs": {
            "enabled": false,
            "scenes": [
                "Example1",
                "Example2"
            ],
            "websocket": {
                "address": "127.0.0.1:4444",
                "password": "admin"
            }
        },
        "qlc": {
            "enabled": false,
            "websocket": {
                "address": "127.0.0.1:9999"
            }
        }   
    }

Scenes is a whitelist of scene names. You can use `"*"` to whitelist all scenes for changing.
Active scene is displayed with green color on the ui.

# Usage

After app starts, it says something like this:
    
    LoistoTxt starting...
    
    Admin interface now available:
    http://localhost:3000/admin

    OBS add new "browser source" and use this address:
    http://localhost:3000


Admin interface is without any passwords for now, since well, I don't need such at our production, and you should run this at a private network anyway...

And for OBS, like the console window says, add a new `browser source`, and paste the address there. You might need to click refresh source, if you restart the service, but it should auto connect anyway after you get initial connetion.
See wiki article `getting started` for tutorial.

## QLC+ integration

To enable qlcplus remote control, you must add `--web` to the shortcut that opens the app.
example: `C:\QLC+\qlcplus.exe --web`

All `functions` in qlc plus are then usable. LoistoTXT when changing scenes will deactivate all functions and then set the selected at `running` state. So you wish to do either Chaser or Scene, I've personally used for now only static scenes.

At `Lights`-tab there is refresh and clear buttons.
Clear sets all scenes to `stop` and refresh fetches the statuses of the scenes.

You can set quick light scene to any song. Click at the empty spot to assign any scene.
Use the arrow-button next to scene to clear the slot. Scenes are persisted to the show automatically when selected, just remember to save the show and you're good to go.

I try to write a wiki article later for qlc+ things.

Commit message:

Version 2.0 with video projector support! File format changed for songs --> redo songs if you have old datas.

README.md, after:

# LoistoTxt 2.0

Notice: Songs data format has been changed since version 1.3.1, app will crash if you attempt to load old files...

Song lyrics and lower 3rd titles displayer to obs, vmix or any casting software that supports browser source. Additionally you can remote control whitelisted scenes at OBS (additional plugin required for this).
Optionally you can control lights on [QLC+ lightdesk app](https://www.qlcplus.org/).

## Install
    
1. Install `nodejs` and `npm` to your platform (win/linux/mac)
2. optionally Install [obs-websocket](https://github.com/Palakis/obs-websocket/releases) plugin to your obs and set it up.
3. Get this repo to some folder at your computer

### Windows

1. double click `install_deps.bat`
2. double click `run.bat` and follow instructions
3. copy `config-default.json` to `config.json`
4. edit config.json to match your settings

### Linux (& Mac)

1. run `npm install` at the folder
2. start by writing `npm start` at console and follow instructions
3. copy `config-default.json` to `config.json`
4. edit config.json to match your settings

### config.json

structure of the file is quite obvious:

    {
        "obs": {
            "enabled": false,
            "scenes": [
                "Example1",
                "Example2"
            ],
            "websocket": {
                "address": "127.0.0.1:4444",
                "password": "admin"
            }
        },
        "qlc": {
            "enabled": false,
            "websocket": {
                "address": "127.0.0.1:9999"
            }
        }   
    }

Scenes is a whitelist of scene names. You can use `"*"` to whitelist all scenes for changing.
Active scene is displayed with green color on the ui.

# Usage

After app starts, it says something like this:
    
    LoistoTxt starting...
    
    Admin interface now available:
    http://localhost:3000/admin

    OBS add new "browser source" and use this address:
    http://localhost:3000/video
	
	Projectors use this address:
	http://localhost:3000/


Admin interface is without any passwords for now, since well, I don't need such at our production, and you should run this at a private network anyway...

And for OBS, like the console window says, add a new `browser source`, and paste the address there. You might need to click refresh source, if you restart the service, but it should auto connect anyway after you get initial connetion.
See wiki article `getting started` for tutorial.

## Video projectors

A new feature is ability to use video projectors in addition to stream view.
Background can be set to the projectors view with backgrounds-tab. 
Placing .jpg, .png, or .mp4 files at `data/backgrounds` folder to load, notice if you run this outside of intranet the file sizes must be optimized. Videos will loop.

## QLC+ integration

To enable qlcplus remote control, you must add `--web` to the shortcut that opens the app.
example: `C:\QLC+\qlcplus.exe --web`

All `functions` in qlc plus are then usable. LoistoTXT when changing scenes will deactivate all functions and then set the selected at `running` state. So you wish to do either Chaser or Scene, I've personally used for now only static scenes.

At `Lights`-tab there is refresh and clear buttons.
Clear sets all scenes to `stop` and refresh fetches the statuses of the scenes.

You can set quick light scene to any song. Click at the empty spot to assign any scene.
Use the arrow-button next to scene to clear the slot. Scenes are persisted to the show automatically when selected, just remember to save the show and you're good to go.

I try to write a wiki article later for qlc+ things.
